# Role In GCP

Roles in GCP are divided in to 2 major parts
1. Basic roles
2. Predefined roles

## Basic Roles

Basic roles are highly permissive roles that existed prior to the introduction of IAM. You can use basic roles to grant principals broad access to Google Cloud resources.
There are 3 basic roles that can be applied

- Viewer (roles/viewer) Permissions for read-only actions that don't affect state, such as viewing (but not modifying) existing resources or data

- Editor (roles/editor) All viewer permissions, _plus_ permissions for actions that modify state, such as changing existing resources. The permissions in the Editor role let you create and delete resources for most Google Cloud services. However, the Editor role doesn't contain permissions to perform all actions for all services.

- Owner (roles/owner) All Editor permissions, _plus_ permissions for actions like the following: Completing sensitive tasks, like creating App Engine applications, Managing roles and permissions for a project and all resources within the project, Setting up billing for a project

You can grant basic roles using the Google Cloud console, the API, and the gcloud CLI. However, to grant the Owner role on a project to a user outside of your organization, you must use the Google Cloud console, not the gcloud CLI. If your project is not part of an organization, you must use the Google Cloud console to grant the Owner role.

## Predefined Roles

In addition to the basic roles, IAM provides additional predefined roles that give granular access to specific Google Cloud resources. These roles are created and maintained by Google. Google automatically updates their permissions as necessary, such as when Google Cloud adds new features or services.

Predefined roles give granular access to specific Google Cloud resources. These roles are created and maintained by Google. Google automatically updates their permissions as necessary, such as when Google Cloud adds new features or services.

Each and every service in Google has roles that can be granted to provide granular access*

## Custom Roles

IAM also lets you create _custom IAM roles_. Custom roles help you enforce the principle of least privilege, because they help to ensure that the principals in your organization have only the permissions that they need.

Custom roles are user-defined, and allow you to bundle one or more supported permissions to meet your specific needs. When you create a custom role, you must choose an organization or project to create it in. You can then grant the custom role on the organization or project, as well as any resources within that organization or project.

You can only grant a custom role within the project or organization in which you created it. You cannot grant custom roles on other projects or organizations, or on resources within other projects or organizations.

### When to use custom roles

In most situations, you should be able to use predefined roles instead of custom roles. Predefined roles are maintained by Google, and are updated automatically when new permissions, features, or services are added to Google Cloud. In contrast, custom roles are not maintained by Google; when Google Cloud adds new permissions, features, or services, your custom roles will not be updated automatically.

However, you might want to create a custom role in the following situations:

- A principal needs a permission, but each predefined role that includes that permission also includes permissions that the principal doesn't need and shouldn't have.
- You use [role recommendations](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/recommender-overview) to replace overly permissive role grants with more appropriate role grants. In some cases, you might receive a [recommendation to create a custom role](https://cloud.google.com/policy-intelligence/docs/role-recommendations-overview#custom-roles).

Also be aware of the following limits:

- Custom roles can contain up to 3,000 permissions. Also, the maximum total size of the title, description, and permission names for a custom role is 64 KB.

- There are limits to the number of custom roles you can create:
    - You can create up to 300 organization-level custom roles in your organization
    - You can create up to 300 project-level custom roles in each project in your organization.

### Custom roles lifecycle

The following sections describe key considerations at each phase of a custom role's lifecycle. You can use this information to inform how you [create and manage your custom roles](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-custom-roles).

#### Creation

When you're creating a custom role, choose an ID, title, and description that help you identify the role:

- **Role ID**: The role ID is a unique identifier for the role. It can be up to 64 bytes long and can contain uppercase and lowercase alphanumeric characters, underscores, and periods. You can't reuse a role ID within an organization or project.
    
    You can't change role IDs, so choose them carefully. You can delete a custom role, but you can't create a new custom role with the same ID in the same organization or project until after the 44-day deletion process has completed. For more information about the deletion process, see [Deleting a custom role](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-custom-roles#deleting_a_custom_role).
    
- **Role title**: The role title appears in the list of roles in the Google Cloud console. The title doesn't have to be unique, but we recommend using unique and descriptive titles to better distinguish your roles. Also, consider indicating in the role title if the role was created at the organization level or the project level.
    
    Role titles can be up to 100 bytes long and can contain uppercase and lowercase alphanumeric characters and symbols. You can change role titles at any time.
    
- **Role description**: The role description is an optional field where you can provide additional information about a role. For example, you could include the role's intended purpose, the date a role was created or modified, and any predefined roles that the custom role is based on. Descriptions can be up to 300 bytes long and can contain uppercase and lowercase alphanumeric characters and symbols.
    

Also keep [permission dependencies](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/roles-overview#custom-role-permission-dependencies) in mind when creating custom roles.

To learn how to create a custom role based on a predefined role, see [Creating and managing custom roles](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-custom-roles).

#### Launch

Custom roles include a launch stage as part of the role's metadata. The most common launch stages for custom roles are `ALPHA`, `BETA`, and `GA`. These launch stages are informational; they help you keep track of whether each role is ready for widespread use. Another common launch stage is `DISABLED`. This launch stage lets you [disable a custom role](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/roles-overview#disable).

We recommend that you use launch stages to convey the following information about the role:

- `EAP` or `ALPHA`: The role is still being developed or tested, or it includes permissions for Google Cloud services or features that are not yet public. It is not ready for widespread use.
- `BETA`: The role has been tested on a limited basis, or it includes permissions for Google Cloud services or features that are not generally available.
- `GA`: The role has been widely tested, and all of its permissions are for Google Cloud services or features that are generally available.
- `DEPRECATED`: The role is no longer in use.

To learn how to change a role's launch stage, see [Editing an existing custom role](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-custom-roles#editing_an_existing_custom_role).

#### Maintenance

You are responsible for maintaining custom roles. This includes updating roles as your users' responsibilities change, as well as updating roles to let users access new features that require additional permissions.

If you base your custom role on predefined roles, we recommend routinely checking those predefined roles for permission changes. Tracking these changes can help you decide when and how to update your custom role. For example, you might notice that a predefined role was updated with permissions to use a new Preview feature, and might decide to add those permissions to your custom role as well.

To make it easier to see which predefined roles to monitor, we recommend listing any predefined roles that your custom role is based on in the custom role's description field. The Google Cloud console does this automatically when you use the Google Cloud console to create a custom role based on predefined roles.

To learn how to update a custom role's permissions and description, see [Editing an existing custom role](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-custom-roles#editing_an_existing_custom_role).

Refer to the [permissions change log](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/permissions-change-log) to determine what roles and permissions have changed recently.

#### Disabling

If you no longer want any principals in your organization to use a custom role, you can disable the role. To disable the role, change its launch stage to `DISABLED`.

Disabled roles still appear in your IAM policies and can be granted to principals, but they don't have any effect.