# Create a VM with a custom machine type


Compute Engine offers predefined machine types that you can use when you create a VM instance. A predefined machine type has a preset number of vCPUs and amount of memory, and is charged at a set price.

If predefined VMs don't meet your needs, you can create a VM instance with custom virtualized hardware settings. Specifically, you can create a VM instance with a custom number of vCPUs and amount of memory, effectively using a custom machine type. With custom machine types, you can create VM instances with as little as 1 vCPU and up to 96 vCPUs, or any even number of vCPUs in between. You can also configure up to 8 GB of memory per vCPU.

Custom machine types are available in the [general-purpose machine family](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/general-purpose-machines). When you create a custom VM, you're deploying a custom VM from the E2, N2, N2D, or N1 machine family.

Custom VMs are ideal in the following scenarios:

- Workloads that aren't a good fit for the predefined virtual machine types.
- Workloads that require more processing power or more memory but don't need all upgrades that are provided by the next level machine type.

## Before you begin

- If you want to use the command-line examples in this guide, do the following:
    1. Install or update to the latest version of the [Google Cloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/gcloud-compute).
    2. [Set a default region and zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/gcloud-compute#set_default_zone_and_region_in_your_local_client).
- If you want to use the API examples in this guide, [set up API access](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/api/prereqs).
- Read the [machine families](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-resource) documentation.

## Pricing

Google charges for custom VMs based on the number of vCPUs and memory hours that the VM uses. This is different from how predefined machine types are charged. The on-demand prices for custom machine types include a 5% premium over the on-demand prices for standard machine types. See [VM instance pricing](https://cloud.google.com/compute/vm-instance-pricing) for the pricing information of custom machine types from each machine family.

Custom VMs are subject to the same 1-minute minimum charge as any other instance, but sustained use discounts for custom machine types are calculated differently. For more information, see [sustained use discounts](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/sustained-use-discounts#sud_custom) for custom VMs.

## Expressing memory in GB or MB

For Google Cloud tools and documentation, machine type memory is calculated in gigabytes (GB), where 1 GB is 230 bytes. This unit of measurement is also known as a [gibibyte (GiB)](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Gibibyte) . When converting memory from GB to MB, 1 GB = 1024 MB.

In the API, you must always provide memory in megabytes. If you use the Google Cloud CLI, you can provide the total memory for a VM in gigabytes or megabytes. However, the gcloud CLI expects the memory value to be an integer, so you cannot provide a float value. For example, to express 5.75 GB, convert 5.75 GB into MB instead. In this case, 5.75 GB is 5888 MB.

## Create a VM with a custom machine type

Before you create a VM instance, make sure you read and understand the [custom specifications](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/general-purpose-machines#custom_machine_types) for creating this machine type.

The `gcloud` command for custom machine types differs slightly depending on the machine type family.

For N1 machine types, use the [`gcloud compute instances create` command](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/instances/create) and include one of the following options:

- The `--custom-cpu` and `--custom-memory` flags.
- The `--machine-type=custom-[NUMBER_OF_CPUS]-[NUMBER_OF_MB]` flag.

For example, the following command would create an instance running an N1 machine type with 4 vCPUs and 5 GB of total memory:

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance \
    --custom-cpu=4 --custom-memory=5
```

For N2 machine types, use the [`gcloud compute instances create` command](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/instances/create) and include one of the following options:

- The `--custom-cpu`, `--custom-memory`, and `--custom-vm-type` flags.
- The `--machine-type=n2-custom-NUMBER_OF_CPUS-NUMBER_OF_MB` flag.

When using the `--custom-memory` flag, specify the **total amount** of memory in GB or in MB. The property must be an integer, so if you want to specify increments of 0.25 GB for memory, convert that value to MB instead.

To specify an incremental value, such as 2.5 GB of memory, convert the value to MB and supply the value followed by the MB suffix. The following example creates an instance running an N2 machine type:

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance \
    --custom-cpu=6 --custom-memory=3072MB --custom-vm-type=n2
```

Alternatively, you can specify a custom machine type using the following format:

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance \
    --machine-type n2-custom-NUMBER_OF_CPUS-NUMBER_OF_MB
```

Replace the following:

- `NUMBER_OF_CPUS`: The number of CPUs you want.
- `NUMBER_OF_MB`: The amount of memory, in MB.

For example:

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance --machine-type=n2-custom-6-3072
```

For N2D or E2 machine types, use the [`gcloud compute instances create` command](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/instances/create) and include one of the following options:

- The `--custom-cpu`, `--custom-memory`, and `--custom-vm-type` flags.
- The `--machine-type=n2d-custom-NUMBER_OF_CPUS-NUMBER_OF_MB` flag.
- The `--machine-type=e2-custom-NUMBER_OF_CPUS-NUMBER_OF_MB` flag.

For E2 shared-core custom machine types, use the same [`gcloud compute instances create` command](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/instances/create) and include the shared-core machine size: `micro`, `small`, or `medium`.

- The `--machine-type=e2-custom-SHARED_CORE_MACHINE_SIZE-NUMBER_OF_MB` flag.

For example:

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance \
    --machine-type=e2-custom-medium-NUMBER_OF_MB
```

When using the `--custom-memory` flag, specify the **total amount** of memory in GB or in MB. The property must be an integer. So, if you want to specify increments of 0.25 GB for memory, convert the value to MB instead.

To specify an incremental value, such as 2.5 GB of memory, convert the value to MB and supply the value followed by the MB suffix. The following example creates an instance running an E2 machine type:

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance \
    --custom-cpu=6 --custom-memory=3072MB --custom-vm-type=e2
```

Alternatively, you can specify a custom machine type by using the following format:

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance \
    --machine-type=e2-custom-NUMBER_OF_CPUS-NUMBER_OF_MB
```

Replace the following:

- `NUMBER_OF_CPUS`: The number of CPUs you want.
- `NUMBER_OF_MB`: The amount of memory, in MB.

For example:

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance --machine-type=e2-custom-6-3072
```

## Add extended memory to a machine type

Depending on the machine, each machine type has a specific amount of memory by default. For example, if you create a custom N1 VM, it can have up to 6.5 GB of memory per vCPU. For custom N2 VMs, this number increases up to 8 GB of memory per vCPU.

For some workloads, this might not be enough memory. At an extra cost, you can get more memory per vCPU beyond the default limit. This is referred to as extended memory.

With extended memory, you can add memory to a machine type with no limitations per vCPU. You can add extended memory up to certain limits based on the machine type:

- For N1 machine types, you can add up to a total of 624 GB of memory per VM.
- For N2 machine types, you can add up to a total of 640 GB of memory per VM.
- For N2D machine types, you can add up to a total of 768 GB of memory per VM.
- Extended memory is not available for E2 machine types.

If you require more memory, you must use one of the memory-optimized machine types, which let you create VMs with a total memory of up to 12 TB per VM.

### Determining whether you need extended memory

Certain workloads need more than the default amount of memory per vCPU to deliver optimum results. Workloads that are based on in-memory high- performance analytics databases, including relational and NoSQL databases such as MS SQL Server, MongoDB, and MemcacheD/Redis, are in this category. The vCPU-based licensing of operating systems and software stacks also makes selecting an optimal VM memory configuration more challenging with predefined machine types. By using extended memory, you can add as much memory as your VMs need for the best price- performance ratio.

### Pricing

When using a custom machine type, any memory up to and including the default amount per vCPU is charged at the [N1 custom machine type pricing](https://cloud.google.com/compute/vm-instance-pricing#n1_custommachinetypepricing), or the [N2 custom machine type pricing](https://cloud.google.com/compute/vm-instance-pricing#n2_custommachinetypepricing). [E2 custom machine and E2 shared-core custom machine types](https://cloud.google.com/compute/vm-instance-pricing#e2_custommachinetypepricing) share the same pricing scheme.

For memory above the default, Compute Engine charges for extended memory based on the [N1 extended custom memory pricing](https://cloud.google.com/compute/vm-instance-pricing#n1_extendedmemory) or the [N2 extended custom memory pricing](https://cloud.google.com/compute/vm-instance-pricing#n2_extendedmemory). The price for extended memory is different from the price for memory below the default threshold.

Extended memory prices differ depending on the region. Instances running with extended memory are subject to the same 1-minute minimum charge as any other instance. Extended memory also qualifies for sustained use discounts.

### Limitations

- You can add extended memory only to custom machine types. Predefined machine types are not supported.
- There is no limit to the memory per vCPU that you can add, but there is a maximum amount of memory you can add to each VM instance. For N1 machine types, you can add up to 624 GB of memory. For N2 machine types, you can add up to 640 GB of memory. For N2D machines types, you can add up to 768 GB of memory.
- N2 and N2D machine types are available only in select [regions and zones](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones#available).
- You must specify memory in 256-MB increments.
- Extended memory does not qualify for [committed use discounts](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/signing-up-committed-use-discounts).

### Add extended memory during instance creation

To create a VM instance with extended memory, follow the instructions below.

For N1 machine types, use the [`gcloud compute instances create` command](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/instances/create) with the `--custom-extensions` flag to enable extended memory. Specify the total memory that you want with the `--custom-memory` parameter.

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance  \
	--custom-extensions --custom-cpu=2 --custom-memory=15
```

For N2 machine types, use the [`gcloud compute instances create` command](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/instances/create) with the `--custom-extensions`, `--custom-cpu`, and `--custom-memory` flags, followed by the `--custom-vm-type` flag, to specify the N2 machine type:

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance \
	--custom-extensions --custom-cpu=2 --custom-memory=16 \
	--custom-vm-type=n2
```

For N2D machine types, use the [`gcloud compute instances create` command](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/instances/create) with the `--custom-extensions`, `--custom-cpu`, and `--custom-memory` flags, followed by the `--custom-vm-type` flag, to specify the N2D machine type:

```
gcloud compute instances create example-instance \
	--custom-extensions --custom-cpu=2 --custom-memory=16 \
	--custom-vm-type=n2d
```

### Add extended memory to an existing VM instance

To add more memory to an existing instance, you must first [stop the instance](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/stop-start-instance). After the instance stops, follow the instructions below to add more memory to the VM.

Use the [`compute instances set-machine-type` command](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/instances/set-machine-type) with the `--custom-memory` and `--custom-extensions` flags.

For example, to add 2 GB memory to a VM instance named `example-instance`, which currently has an N1 machine type with 2 vCPU, 13 GB, in the `us-central1-b` zone, use the following command:

```
gcloud compute instances set-machine-type example-instance \
	--zone=us-central1-b --custom-cpu=2 \
	--custom-memory=15 --custom-extensions
```